Natural Selection 2 - Guide
SEPERATE INTO TWO POSTS (ONE FOR ALIEN GAMEPLAY THE OTHER FOR MARINE GAMEPLAY)
Let's talk about Natural Selection 2. As said in a previous post (which can be found here [LINK]), NS2 is a hybrid of the real-time strategy and first-person shooter genres in which two teams, the Marines and the Aliens, duke it out for survival.
The goal of the game is to destroy the Marines' Command Stations if you're an Alien or to destroy the Aliens' Hives if you're a Marine. 
Seems simple right? If you've ever played an RTS like Starcraft, then you must be familiar with the concept of gathering ressources and strengthening your units in order to dominate your opponent. Similarily in NS2, both teams must fight over valuable ressource nodes (which produce ressources over time for the team who controls them) all over the map. 
The more ressource nodes a team controls, the more ressources they gain over time, the better weapons and technologies (or lifeforms and evolutions) they can afford which will give them an advantage over the enemy team, making it easier for them to secure a win.
One person on each team, called the Commander, issues orders and provides support for all the other players on his team. I've yet to try playing Commander in earnest because as Commander you have a lot of responsibility towards your teamates and, for the moment, I'd rather let the more experienced players take on that role.
On the other hand, I've played extensively on both sides as a lowly unit (both Marine and Alien), therefore that is what I will focus my efforts on explaining.
A player on the Alien team can choose between five different lifeforms each being arguably more powerful than the previous. From least powerful to most powerful, these are the Skulk, the Gorge, the Lerk, the Fade and the Onos.
The Skulk is small and fast-moving alien with a high-damage bite attack and a hitscan parasite attack which marks enemies hit on the map for allies. Both a leap ability called Leap and a suicide bomber-like ability called Xenocide can be acquired later on in the game if the Alien Commander chooses to do so.
The Gorge is a support Alien, similar to the TF2 Engineer, capable of building defensive structures and healing allied units and structures. The Gorge starts with a long-range spit attack which obscures vision. The Gorge can gain a medium range artillery-like ability called Bile Bomb which does massive damage over time to armor, including Marine structures and Exosuits (walking Alien-killing machines).
The Lerk is a flying Alien with a low amount of health coupled with a small hitbox making it heavily reliant on its mobility for survival. The Lerk has a poison bite which deals damage on-hit and damage over time and a long range hitscan attack called Spikes. It can potentially gain an smokescreen-like ability called Umbra which applies a damage-protection buff on allies in its area of effect. The Lerk can also gain an ability called Spores which leaves a poison trail in the Lerk's wake which damages health-only.
The Fade is an assassin-like Alien excelling at jumping into some marines, killing one or two, get some healing and repeating the process. The Fade's abilities make him one of the most mobile Alien units. To effectively play the Fade, you must use his mobility to your advantage.
The Onos is (tank)...
[TALK ABOUT EACH DIFFERENT ALIEN LIFEFORM]
[TALK ABOUT STRATEGIES/PLAYSTYLES FOR VARIOUS LIFEFORMS]
As you can see, each has their own strengths and weaknesses and widely diverging playstyles which make playing each one a very different experience. Most importantly though, Aliens are mostly melee-focused and so playing as an Alien requires an entirely different set of skills compared to other FPSs.  


As you know by now, as a Marine you won't be facing humanoids with guns but alien creatures. Because of this, playing as a Marine is a different and refreshing experience for FPS players.
Players of first-person shooters will be familiar with the Marines, their weaponary and their controls. As a Marine, you begin with an assault rifle, a pistol and an axe-like melee weapon. More powerful weapons can be purchased over the course of a match as they are researched by the Commander.
These weapons, bought by marines using their own personal ressources, change the various roles and capabilities of the marines.
For example, shotguns, like mines, prove to be great against weak low-health aliens such as the Skulk whereas the starting assault rifle is better for strong and heavily armored aliens such as the Onos.
Flamethrowers are great against alien structures and aliens who use energy (personal ressource for using abilities) such as the Gorge and the Fade because it reduces its regenaration rate.
Grenade Launchers are very effective against most structures and clusters of weakers aliens but are quite difficult to use against fast-moving targets.
Jetpacks are great for avoiding most aliens and getting around the map quicker. 
Welders allow individual soldiers to repair buildings and Exosuits which is more essential than you might guess after you've played for awhile.
Exosuits are heavily armored walking tanks which are capable of dishing out huge amounts of damage but are also slow-moving.
[TALK ABOUT WEAPON CHOICES/MARINE ROLES]
