Open World GTA-like games
I used to think that the golden age for serious and semi-realistic open world games like Grand Theft Auto had passed. Back when they first became popular, the GTA games and their ilk provided players with unique and exciting gameplay that was revolutionary at the time. But over time, at least for me, the series and games emulating its style grew stale. If something works, then don't fix it. Right? People, myself included, kept buying the games and the developers kept making them.  
The formula has worked well in the past but people who've played games for as long as I have are looking for experiences a little more innovative than the classic "steal car then shoot gangsters" gameplay given to us by GTA-like games.
In contrast, I've had a blast completing the two most recent entries in the Saints Row series. From the moment you press the start button to when the end credits roll, Saints Row flings you into an off-the-wall crazy story that keeps you pressing buttons in order to see what will happen next. Saints Row's portrayal of the "gangster" life style is completely insane, exagerated and, most importantly, funny.
Whilst GTA games have focused on providing the player with mostly serious and semi-realistic experiences, barring San Andreas, Saints Row has excelled and injected life back into a dying genre of video games by focusing on the fun and ridiculous rather than authenticity and realism.
That's not to say that realism in an open world game can't be done. In fact, one of my greatest game experiences was had playing through Red Dead Redemption a couple years ago. LA Noire is another example of a game that takes the basic open world GTA formula and shifts it in interesting ways in order to provide a fresh and fun experience.
Recently, I've been playing Sleeping Dogs which is an open-world GTA-like game taking place in Hong Kong putting you in the role of Wei Shen, an undercover cop, on a mission to infiltrate and disrupt the local triads. The combat and driving in Sleeping Dogs is top-notch and not sub-par like most GTA games. But what seperates Sleeping Dogs from the rest of the crowd is its storyline and its fleshed out characters with great voice acting.
Sleeping Dogs makes the player equally willing to actively watch the cutscenes with anticipation and beat up bad guys. That's one of the many things that it does right. I hope people working on the next-generation of open world GTA-like games are inspired by games like Saints Row and Sleeping Dogs to switch up the classic formula we all know and love in new and interesting ways.
